I"v<p>Cyberbullying means using technology to harass, threaten, embarrass or target another 
person, and by definition it happens among young people. When it happens to adults over 18, 
it takes the name of cyberharassment or cyberstalking, and is a crime with serious legal 
consequences. How can you recognise cyberbullying? Sometimes the writer of a message is 
being friendly and joking but the person who receives it misunderstands the tone. So an 
argument starts. This is not cyberbullying. When there is a repeated pattern and the messages 
continue with no provocation, or the person ignores requests to stop, this is cyberbullying.</p>

<p>Signs a person is a victim of cyberbullying include: being upset during or after using the 
internet or the phone, being very secretive about your digital lite withdrawal from family 
members, friends, and activities avoiding school or group events changes in mood, sleep, or 
appetite being nervous when getting a message. What can we do to stop the bullies?
Blocking the bully is not enough. Talk about it to people you trust. Do not stay silent. It is 
essential that you report bullying, because if bullies lose one victim, they will find another. If you 
suspect that a friend is a victim, offer help, talk about your suspicions, you will not help your 
friend with silence. But if you suspect that a friend <em>IS</em> a cyberbully? Sometimes cyberbullies 
have psychological problems and need professional help. Remember: silence is not a solution.</p>

<p>There was a time when teenagers used to just play computer games and listen to their MP3 
players. Well, those days are over as more and more teens are not only using technology, 
they’re also making it! Nick D’Aloisio was 16 years old when he was surfing websites to study 
for his history test and he got the idea for his app, Summly. The Summly app summarises news 
from major news websites so you can read them on your smartphone. Over a million people 
downloaded Summly immediately after its launch. This attracted Yahoo’s attention: the 
company bought Summly for $30 million and Nick now works for them. 
Ethan Duggan, 13, created LazyKid - an app to answer parents’ questions while you’re busy and you haven’t got time to answer. The app includes sentences like Yes, I’ve done my homework, I’ll do it later and 
One second! You can use the pre-recorded sentences or record new ones. Ethan also created 
LazyHusband and LazyWife apps, and he became the youngest member of the tech club 
where he lives. So much for the lazy kid! Annie Gainer, 13, and six classmates created 
Remember me, an app to help old people with Alzheimer’s recognise family and friends, She 
had the idea because her grandfather was starting to forget her. Remember me uses facial 
recognition software and a smartphone camera. You upload people’s information on the phone 
(names, ages, relationship) when you take a picture of the person in front of you and you get 
that information on your screen. And teenagers are not the only ones with digital talent! Sharon 
Standiford, a mother of two teenagers, invented /gnore No More, an app that stops kids from 
ignoring their parents’ calls or messages, After installing the app, parents can take control of 
their children’s smartphone and block it. Kids won’t be able to play games, access the Internet 
or call anybody else unless they answer an ignored call or message from their parents. Sharon 
got the idea because her kids weren’t answering her calls. Watch out! This app’s already got 
millions of likes,. from parents!
Internet safety
Use a nickname when possible. Don’t give your name, home address, email address or phone 
number in online social areas. Don’t give personal information about where you live, where you 
go to school or college, as someone can use this to identify you. And don’t give your phone 
number. Use different passwords. And keep your passwords secret: this protects you from 
identity theft. Don’t tell your friends your passwords. Good chatrooms are well-monitored and 
have safety features, including a moderator. Most chatrooms have some public areas for group 
conversations and private areas for one-to-one chat. Chat in the public areas, not the private 
areas.
Online bullying is a big problem. When a person bullies you, don’t respond - that is what they 
want you to do. Always tell a parent, trusted adult or a teacher if you are under 18. They can 
report the bully or bullies to the Internet Service Provider or the chatroom moderator. Make 
notes of names, times and contact details. Many young people want to meet new friends on 
social media. This can be very dangerous. It is very easy to create false identities online. 
<strong>NEVER</strong> arrange a meeting on your own. Don’t agree to meet someone secretly. Always tell your 
parents. Always take a friend or your mum or dad. Arrange the meeting in a safe public place 
during the day</p>
:ET